DOCSP-35364: Flutter SDK - Nested Collections of Mixed Data (#3201)
mongodb/docs-realm: source/sdk/flutter/realm-database/model-data/define-realm-object-schema.txt

         :language: dart
         :emphasize-lines: 15-16

.. _flutter-model-unstructured-data:

Model Unstructured Data 
-----------------------

.. versionadded:: 2.0.0

Starting in Flutter SDK version 2.0.0, you can 
:ref:`define nested collections 
of mixed data <flutter-nested-collections-realm-value>` 
within a  ``RealmValue`` property.

The ability to nest collections of mixed data enables you to define data 
that doesn't otherwise conform to an expected schema, including data with 
variable structure or data whose shape or type is not known at runtime. 
For example, you might have highly variable user-created objects, event logs, 
or survey response data that are collected and stored in a variety of JSON 
formats. This approach allows you to :ref:`react to changes <flutter-realm-list-change-listener>`

> in the nested data and to update specific elements, but it is less 
> performant than using a structured schema or serializing JSON blobs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in the nested data and to update specific elements. However in some cases, it is less 
performant than using a structured schema or serializing JSON blobs.
```
Why it is less performant? Maybe give some reasons or cases where it would be less performant.

Author: I've noted this for a fast follow addition. I'll need to get more info from engineering for the additional details

into a single string property.

To model unstructured data in your schema using collections of mixed type, 
define the appropriate properties in your schema as 
:ref:`RealmValue <flutter-realm-value>` types. You can then set these   
``RealmValue`` properties as a :ref:`RealmList <flutter-realm-list>` or a 
:ref:`RealmMap <flutter-realm-map>` collection of ``RealmValue`` elements. 
Note that ``RealmValue`` *cannot* represent a ``RealmSet`` or an embedded object.

For example, you might use a ``RealmValue`` that contains a map of mixed 
data when modeling a variable event log object: 

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/flutter/define_realm_model_test.snippet.unstructured-data-model.dart
   :language: dart

.. io-code-block::

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    :copyable: true
```
Did a quick search, adding this should make the code snippet copyable!

         :language: dart
         :emphasize-lines: 15-16

.. _flutter-model-unstructured-data:

Model Unstructured Data 
-----------------------

.. versionadded:: 2.0.0

Starting in Flutter SDK version 2.0.0, you can 
:ref:`define nested collections 
of mixed data <flutter-nested-collections-realm-value>` 
within a  ``RealmValue`` property.

The ability to nest collections of mixed data enables you to define data 
that doesn't otherwise conform to an expected schema, including data with 
variable structure or data whose shape or type is not known at runtime. 
For example, you might have highly variable user-created objects, event logs, 
or survey response data that are collected and stored in a variety of JSON 
formats. It could also be a good temporary option while you are 
in early development and still determining the structure of your app's data. 

To model unstructured data in your schema using collections of mixed type, 
define the appropriate properties in your schema as :ref:`RealmValue <flutter-realm-value>` types 
that contain either a :ref:`RealmList <flutter-realm-list>` or a 

> :ref:`RealmMap <flutter-realm-map>` of ``RealmValue`` type: 

Reviewer 2: I know what this means, but to a new user reading this, it may seem they need to somehow clarify that the RealmValue property contains a map or list.

Author: Updated for clarity

- ``RealmValue<List<RealmValue>>``

> - ``RealmValue<RealmMap<String, RealmValue>>``

Reviewer 2: This is not valid dart. The field type is a `RealmValue` with no generic arguments - it can implicitly contain a primitive or a collection with no extra definition required.

Author: Updated here and in the Data Types page

that doesn't otherwise conform to an expected schema, including data with 
variable structure or data whose shape or type is not known at runtime. 
For example, you might have highly variable user-created objects, event logs, 
or survey response data that are collected and stored in a variety of JSON 
formats. This approach allows you to :ref:`react to changes <flutter-realm-list-change-listener>`
in the nested data and to update specific elements, but it is less 
performant than using a structured schema or serializing JSON blobs
into a single string property.

To model unstructured data in your schema using collections of mixed type, 
define the appropriate properties in your schema as 
:ref:`RealmValue <flutter-realm-value>` types. You can then set these   
``RealmValue`` properties as a :ref:`RealmList <flutter-realm-list>` or a 
:ref:`RealmMap <flutter-realm-map>` collection of ``RealmValue`` elements. 
Note that ``RealmValue`` *cannot* represent a ``RealmSet`` or an embedded object.

For example, you might use a ``RealmValue`` that contains a map of mixed 
data when modeling a variable event log object: 

> .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/flutter/define_realm_model_test.snippet.unstructured-data-model.dart

Reviewer: Could add comment at the top.
